A Night Scene

The sable shroud of night, 'tis drawn anon,
O'er yon horizon's edge where day has gone;
And silent murmurs sweep the dusky air,
While Luna's pallid face doth glimmer fair.

The wind, it whispers secrets to the trees,
Their branches bow, as if in pained unease;
A mournful song, so faint, it stirs the soul,
A dirge from realms where phantoms take their toll.

Mute shadows dance upon the moonlit ground,
And spectral beams with eerie light abound;
Those beams, they pierce the fog with ghastly grace,
Revealing visages not bound by place.

Beneath the silvered sheen, the earth doth glow,
Yet ne'er a warmth such radiance may show;
Instead, a chill, it seizes heart and bone,
As though the night itself did flesh dethrone.

Lo, from the ebon deep, there comes a cry,
A wail of sorrow that doth haunt the sky;
Perchance some wandering soul, from terrene bounds,
Seeks solace 'midst the firmament's vast rounds.

The stars, like eyes, they glitter in the veil,
Cold sentinels to human hopes so frail;
Each cosmic tear, a tale of endless woe,
Of fates unseen that cruel time must sow.

And there, in shadowed glen, a mystic sight,
A pool, wherein the night doth weave its night;
Dark waters, still and deep, invite the gaze,
To wander realms where reason meets its daze.

Against cerulean skies where dark meets light,
The owl’s lament, a harbinger of night;
With wisdom wrought from ages long consigned,
It calls upon the spirits to remind.

In this ethereal scene, betwixt and 'tween,
One feels the breath of realms where life has been;
The veil, it thins, and whispers softly sing,
Of mortal dreams and death's eternal ring.

Thus, 'neath the canopy of stars and gloom,
We glean the transient nature of our doom;
For night, in silent splendor, doth reveal,
The fragile thread by which our fates do wheel.

So let us, in the dark, forego our dread,
And, with the whispers of the night, be wed;
For though the shadows on our spirits press,
In night’s embrace, we find our soul’s redress.